Document the effect of BEGIN END and COMMIT on CURSORs (#13169)
crate/crate: docs/sql/statements/begin.rst

Description
===========

The statement starts a transaction block.

As CrateDB does not support transactions, the only effect of this command is
to start a scope in which cursors ``WITHOUT HOLD`` can be
:ref:`declared <sql-declare>`.

.. NOTE::

   Cursors ``WITHOUT HOLD`` are closed automatically after an
   :ref:`END <ref-end>` or :ref:`COMMIT <ref-commit>` command. There is no
   nesting and this happens regardless of how many times `BEGIN` has run.

> For backwards compatibility reasons, commas between successive

Reviewer: This should be a second `NOTE` please.

The statement starts a transaction block until it committed or rolled back.

As CrateDB does not support transactions, the only effect of this command is

> to start a scope on which cursors ``WITHOUT HOLD`` can be

Reviewer: Shouldn't this be `WITH HOLD`?

Author: No, I found it confusing as well, but it is the cursors `WITHOUT HOLD` that require the "transaction" context.
This is the same in other systems, "WITH HOLD specifies that the cursor can continue to be used after the transaction that created it successfully commits" ( https://www.postgresql.org/docs/current/sql-declare.html )

> to start a scope on which cursors ``WITHOUT HOLD`` can be

Reviewer: ```suggestion
to start a scope (transaction), in which cursors ``WITHOUT HOLD`` can be
```

Author: I changed "on" to "in", sorry about that.
Regarding "scope (transaction)" I worry it may get confusing because we are saying we do not support transactions, but I am happy to go with it if you think is clearer.

> :ref:`declared <sql-declare>`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
:ref:`declared <sql-declare>`, and therefore automatically close when the :ref: `end <ref-end>` or :ref commit <ref-commit>` is reached.
```
